#DOCUMENTATION

Imagine every piece of information is right in front of you. No need to look elsewhere as you already are seeing all the data you need to know without any other device. Smart contact lenses provide a medium to deliver information in the most direct way possible, seamlessly into your vision. A.Eye is an invention to have all the information you need brought straight into your sight to help users be as informed as possible. With integration to a Neuralink chip, control is easy and data can be quickly fetched and displayed right into the HUD. Our primary sense is sight, and by augmenting it with our modern technologies we become the best version of ourselves possible.

At least that is the concept with our futuristic invention. A.Eye is a take on the “smartification” of everything in our lives. What started as a smartphone has evolved to include everything from smart watches, smart fridges, smart doors, etc. How far will we go to make everything smart? A smart eyeball seems ridiculous but not completely out of the realm of possibility when technology enables such an invention in the future. At what point does the interconnectedness of everything we interact with become too much? Although everything is at our fingertips, the flood of information has its drawbacks with an increase in polarization and loss of individuality.

These smart contact lenses aren't just fancy HUD displays though, but provide data and altered vision in almost superhuman ways. With clear embedded microsensors, including a microphone and camera, information from our lives can be recorded and processed for future reference at any time. What was it that was said last week by your friend? Just look back to that moment in time with snippets of time replayed into your eyes as if you were there again. The replay of moments can aid with the loss of memory, especially as we age, which defines who we are. These lenses also have industry-specific versions that could aid in all sorts of professional settings. Whether it be through embedded medical tools such as live X-ray feeds leading to quicker and more accurate diagnosis, or looking at a plant and having computer vision analyze its health, these lenses can make us better at doing our everyday tasks by making us more informed than just what we normally see. They also could work as advanced medical devices which improve the lives of everyone, with adaptive vision correction to correct eyesight or dimming effects to protect eyes outside. These lenses give access to new forms of information and provide clarity into our current perception of our world

The website itself presenting this product was inspired by modern tech product sites. We were inspired by a web-app site (https://www.feyapp.com/) and chose a bootstrap site (https://www.free-css.com/free-css-templates/page228/iland) that best matched our animation and layout style. The code was then edited to make the website theme dark and sleek and then adapted the art and content layout on it to fit our product needs. The artwork is partially AI-generated. Using Midjourney, some pretty good pieces that would require a digital artist were made just based on this theoretical concept. That being said there are a lot of limitations to this method as it's not possible to get it to produce exactly what you have as a vision. This means that a lot of prompt manipulating had to be experimented with or the design had to be adapted to fit what was outputted instead of making specific content for a design. Also, the output isn’t perfect. MacOS Preview and an online ai tool (https://onlinepngtools.com/) were utilized to clean up images as they weren’t always without glitches but there is no way to explain the changes needed to a program like a designer. ChatGPT was used to generate some of the descriptions of features as a test. The input had to be hyperspecific to get a relevant output, but the tool was useful to expand upon already existing ideas. Both AI content generation tools we found to be better as resources to give inspiration and get ideas rolling, but not to produce polished content. 

A.Eye. as a concept, this smart wearable device obviously would need a lot of currently unavailable technology, but in the future, our lives may be more technology aided than imaginable. These contact lenses really just brush the surface of what could be augmented with technology. As we become more advanced as a society, we have to decide which parts of our lives we are willing to merge with technology while also recognizing where it could hurt us. Reliance on new technology shouldn’t totally replace who we are as humans.

Working on this project as a team was a valuable experience that allowed us to bring a unique perspective and explore new ideas. Our ability to divide tasks and leverage each other's strengths brought the concept of smart contact lenses to life. The use of AI tools was helpful in generating initial ideas and streamlining the process, however, we also acknowledge the crucial role of human intervention in finalizing and refining the output. This project emphasized the importance of collaboration and how technology can augment human creativity and innovation. While we faced some challenges, working together on this project was both productive and enjoyable, and we are honored to have been a part of it.

